docs/topics/api/auth.rst, before:

.. _api-auth:

=========================
Authentication (External)
=========================

To access the API as an external consumer, you need to include a
`JSON Web Token (JWT)`_ in the ``Authorization`` header for every request.
This header acts as a one-time token that authenticates your user account.
No JWT claims are made about the actual API request you are making.

If you are building an app that lives on the AMO domain, read the
:ref:`documentation for internal authentication <api-auth-internal>` instead.

Access Credentials
==================

To create JWTs, first obtain a **key** and **secret** from the
`API Credentials Management Page`_.


.. note::

    Keep your API keys secret and *never* commit them to a public code repository
    or share them with anyone, including Mozilla contributors.

    If someone obtains your secret they can make API requests on behalf of your user account.


Create a JWT for each request
=============================

Prior to making every API request, you need to generate a fresh `JWT`_.
The JWT will have a short expiration time and is only valid for a single
request so you can't cache or reuse it.
You only need to include a few standard fields; here's what the raw JSON object
needs to look like before it's signed:

.. code-block:: json

    {
        "iss": "your-api-key",
        "jti": "0.47362944623455405",
        "iat": 1447273096,
        "exp": 1447273156
    }

iss
    This is a `standard JWT claim`_ identifying
    the *issuer*. Set this to the **API key** you generated on the
    `credentials management page`_.
    For example: ``user:543210:23``.
jti
    This is a `standard JWT claim`_ declaring a *JWT ID*.
    This value needs to have a high probability of being unique across all
    recent requests made by your issuer ID. This value is a type of
    `cryptographic nonce <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cryptographic_nonce>`_
    designed to prevent
    `replay attacks <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Replay_attack>`_.
iat
    This is a `standard JWT claim`_ indicating
    the *issued at time*. It should be a Unix epoch timestamp and
    **must be in UTC time**.
exp
    This is a `standard JWT claim`_ indicating
    the *expiration time*. It should be a Unix epoch timestamp in UTC time
    and must be **no longer than five minutes** past the issued at time.

     .. versionchanged:: 2016-10-06

        We increased the expiration time from 60 seconds to five minutes
        to workaround support for large and slow uploads.


.. note::
    If you're having trouble authenticating, make sure your system
    clock is correct and consider synchronizing it with something like
    `tlsdate <https://github.com/ioerror/tlsdate>`_.

Take this JSON object and sign it with the **API secret** you generated on the
`credentials management page`_. You must sign the JWT using the ``HMAC-SHA256``
algorithm (which is typically the default).
The final JWT will be a blob of base64 encoded text, something like::

    eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJpc3MiOiJ5b3VyLWFwaS1rZXkiLCJqdGkiOiIwLjQ3MzYyOTQ0NjIzNDU1NDA1IiwiaWF0IjoxNDQ3MjczMDk2LCJleHAiOjE0NDcyNzMxNTZ9.fQGPSV85QPhbNmuu86CIgZiluKBvZKd-NmzM6vo11D

.. note::
    See `jwt.io debugger <https://jwt.io/?value=eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJpc3MiOiJ5b3VyLWFwaS1rZXkiLCJqdGkiOiIwLjQ3MzYyOTQ0NjIzNDU1NDA1IiwiaWF0IjoxNDQ3MjczMDk2LCJleHAiOjE0NDcyNzMxNTZ9.fQGPSV85QPhbNmuu86CIgZiluKBvZKd-NmzM6vo11DM#debugger>`_ for more information about the token.

Here is an example of creating a JWT in `NodeJS <https://nodejs.org/en/>`_
using the `node-jsonwebtoken <https://github.com/auth0/node-jsonwebtoken>`_
library:

.. code-block:: javascript

    var jwt = require('jsonwebtoken');

    var issuedAt = Math.floor(Date.now() / 1000);
    var payload = {
      iss: 'your-api-key',
      jti: Math.random().toString(),
      iat: issuedAt,
      exp: issuedAt + 60,
    };

    var secret = 'your-api-secret';  // store this securely.
    var token = jwt.sign(payload, secret, {
      algorithm: 'HS256',  // HMAC-SHA256 signing algorithm
    });

Create an Authorization header
==============================

When making each request, put your generated `JSON Web Token (JWT)`_
into an HTTP Authorization header prefixed with ``JWT``, like this::

    Authorization: JWT eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJpc3MiOiJ5b3VyLWFwaS1rZXkiLCJqdGkiOiIwLjQ3MzYyOTQ0NjIzNDU1NDA1IiwiaWF0IjoxNDQ3MjczMDk2LCJleHAiOjE0NDcyNzMxNTZ9.fQGPSV85QPhbNmuu86CIgZiluKBvZKd-NmzM6vo11DM

Example request
===============

Using the :ref:`profile <profile>` as an example endpoint,
here's what a JWT authenticated HTTP request would look like in
`curl <http://curl.haxx.se/>`_::

    curl "https://addons.mozilla.org/api/v4/accounts/profile/" \
         -H "Authorization: JWT eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJpc3MiOiJ5b3VyLWFwaS1rZXkiLCJqdGkiOiIwLjQ3MzYyOTQ0NjIzNDU1NDA1IiwiaWF0IjoxNDQ3MjczMDk2LCJleHAiOjE0NDcyNzMxNTZ9.fQGPSV85QPhbNmuu86CIgZiluKBvZKd-NmzM6vo11DM"


Find a JWT library
==================

There are robust open source libraries for creating JWTs in
`all major programming languages <http://jwt.io/>`_.


.. _`manage-credentials`: https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/developers/addon/api/key/
.. _`API Credentials Management Page`: manage-credentials_
.. _`credentials management page`: manage-credentials_
.. _`jwt-spec`: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7519
.. _JWT: jwt-spec_
.. _`JSON Web Token (JWT)`: jwt-spec_
.. _`standard JWT claim`: jwt-spec_

Commit message:

Fix jwt.io link and mention the secret in JWT docs. (#8625)
Fixes #3493

docs/topics/api/auth.rst, after:

.. _api-auth:

=========================
Authentication (External)
=========================

To access the API as an external consumer, you need to include a
`JSON Web Token (JWT)`_ in the ``Authorization`` header for every request.
This header acts as a one-time token that authenticates your user account.
No JWT claims are made about the actual API request you are making.

If you are building an app that lives on the AMO domain, read the
:ref:`documentation for internal authentication <api-auth-internal>` instead.

Access Credentials
==================

To create JWTs, first obtain a **key** and **secret** from the
`API Credentials Management Page`_.


.. note::

    Keep your API keys secret and *never* commit them to a public code repository
    or share them with anyone, including Mozilla contributors.

    If someone obtains your secret they can make API requests on behalf of your user account.


Create a JWT for each request
=============================

Prior to making every API request, you need to generate a fresh `JWT`_.
The JWT will have a short expiration time and is only valid for a single
request so you can't cache or reuse it.
You only need to include a few standard fields; here's what the raw JSON object
needs to look like before it's signed:

.. code-block:: json

    {
        "iss": "your-api-key",
        "jti": "0.47362944623455405",
        "iat": 1447273096,
        "exp": 1447273156
    }

iss
    This is a `standard JWT claim`_ identifying
    the *issuer*. Set this to the **API key** you generated on the
    `credentials management page`_.
    For example: ``user:543210:23``.
jti
    This is a `standard JWT claim`_ declaring a *JWT ID*.
    This value needs to have a high probability of being unique across all
    recent requests made by your issuer ID. This value is a type of
    `cryptographic nonce <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cryptographic_nonce>`_
    designed to prevent
    `replay attacks <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Replay_attack>`_.
iat
    This is a `standard JWT claim`_ indicating
    the *issued at time*. It should be a Unix epoch timestamp and
    **must be in UTC time**.
exp
    This is a `standard JWT claim`_ indicating
    the *expiration time*. It should be a Unix epoch timestamp in UTC time
    and must be **no longer than five minutes** past the issued at time.

     .. versionchanged:: 2016-10-06

        We increased the expiration time from 60 seconds to five minutes
        to workaround support for large and slow uploads.


.. note::
    If you're having trouble authenticating, make sure your system
    clock is correct and consider synchronizing it with something like
    `tlsdate <https://github.com/ioerror/tlsdate>`_.

Take this JSON object and sign it with the **API secret** you generated on the
`credentials management page`_. You must sign the JWT using the ``HMAC-SHA256``
algorithm (which is typically the default).
The final JWT will be a blob of base64 encoded text, something like::

    eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJpc3MiOiJ5b3VyLWFwaS1rZXkiLCJqdGkiOiIwLjQ3MzYyOTQ0NjIzNDU1NDA1IiwiaWF0IjoxNDQ3MjczMDk2LCJleHAiOjE0NDcyNzMxNTZ9.fQGPSV85QPhbNmuu86CIgZiluKBvZKd-NmzM6vo11D

.. note::
    See `jwt.io debugger <https://jwt.io/#debugger-io?token=eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJpc3MiOiJ5b3VyLWFwaS1rZXkiLCJpYXQiOjE0NDcyNzMwOTYsImp0aSI6IjAuNDczNjI5NDQ2MjM0NTU0MDUiLCJleHAiOjE0NDcyNzMxNTZ9.TQ4B8GEm7UWZPcHuNGgjzD8EU9oUBVbL70Le1IeuYx0>`_ for more information about the token.

    Enter `secret` in the "VERIFY SIGNATURE" section to correctly verify the signature.

Here is an example of creating a JWT in `NodeJS <https://nodejs.org/en/>`_
using the `node-jsonwebtoken <https://github.com/auth0/node-jsonwebtoken>`_
library:

.. code-block:: javascript

    var jwt = require('jsonwebtoken');

    var issuedAt = Math.floor(Date.now() / 1000);
    var payload = {
      iss: 'your-api-key',
      jti: Math.random().toString(),
      iat: issuedAt,
      exp: issuedAt + 60,
    };

    var secret = 'your-api-secret';  // store this securely.
    var token = jwt.sign(payload, secret, {
      algorithm: 'HS256',  // HMAC-SHA256 signing algorithm
    });

Create an Authorization header
==============================

When making each request, put your generated `JSON Web Token (JWT)`_
into an HTTP Authorization header prefixed with ``JWT``, like this::

    Authorization: JWT eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJpc3MiOiJ5b3VyLWFwaS1rZXkiLCJqdGkiOiIwLjQ3MzYyOTQ0NjIzNDU1NDA1IiwiaWF0IjoxNDQ3MjczMDk2LCJleHAiOjE0NDcyNzMxNTZ9.fQGPSV85QPhbNmuu86CIgZiluKBvZKd-NmzM6vo11DM

Example request
===============

Using the :ref:`profile <profile>` as an example endpoint,
here's what a JWT authenticated HTTP request would look like in
`curl <http://curl.haxx.se/>`_::

    curl "https://addons.mozilla.org/api/v4/accounts/profile/" \
         -H "Authorization: JWT eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJpc3MiOiJ5b3VyLWFwaS1rZXkiLCJqdGkiOiIwLjQ3MzYyOTQ0NjIzNDU1NDA1IiwiaWF0IjoxNDQ3MjczMDk2LCJleHAiOjE0NDcyNzMxNTZ9.fQGPSV85QPhbNmuu86CIgZiluKBvZKd-NmzM6vo11DM"


Find a JWT library
==================

There are robust open source libraries for creating JWTs in
`all major programming languages <http://jwt.io/>`_.


.. _`manage-credentials`: https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/developers/addon/api/key/
.. _`API Credentials Management Page`: manage-credentials_
.. _`credentials management page`: manage-credentials_
.. _`jwt-spec`: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7519
.. _JWT: jwt-spec_
.. _`JSON Web Token (JWT)`: jwt-spec_
.. _`standard JWT claim`: jwt-spec_
