docs/topics/api/discovery.rst, before:

=========
Discovery
=========

.. note::
    These APIs are experimental and are currently being worked on. Endpoints
    may change without warning.

-----------------
Discovery Content
-----------------

.. _disco-content:

This endpoint allows you to fetch content for the new Discovery Pane in
Firefox (about:addons).

 .. http:get:: /api/v3/discovery/

    :query string lang: Activate translations in the specific language for that query. (See :ref:`translated fields <api-overview-translations>`)
    :>json int count: The number of results for this query.
    :>json array results: The array containing the results for this query.
    :>json string results[].heading: The heading for this item. May contain some HTML tags.
    :>json string|null results[].description: The description for this item, if any. May contain some HTML tags.
    :>json boolean results[].is_recommendation: If this item was from the recommendation service, rather than static curated content.
    :>json object results[].addon: The :ref:`add-on <addon-detail-object>` for this item. Only a subset of fields are present: ``id``, ``current_version`` (with only the ``compatibility`` and ``files`` fields present), ``guid``, ``icon_url``, ``name``, ``slug``, ``theme_data``, ``type`` and ``url``.


-------------------------
Discovery Recommendations
-------------------------

.. _disco-recommendations:

If a telemetry client id is passed as a parameter to the discovery pane api
endpoint then static curated content is amended with recommendations from the
`recommendation service <https://github.com/mozilla/taar>`_.  The same number
of results will be returned as a standard discovery response and only extensions
(not themes) are recommeded.  Only valid, publicly available addons are shown.

E.g. a standard discovery pane will display 7 items, 4 extensions and 3 themes.
Up to 4 extensions will be replaced with recommendations; the 3 themes will not
be replaced. The API will still return a total of 7 items.


 .. http:get:: /api/v3/discovery/?telemetry-client-id=12345678-90ab-cdef-1234-567890abcdef

    :query string telemetry-client-id: The telemetry client ID to be passed to the TAAR service.
    :query string lang: In addition to activating translations (see :ref:`Discovery Content <disco-content>`), this will be passed as `locale` to TAAR.
    :query string platform: The platform identifier to be passed to TAAR.
    :query string branch: Additional parameter passed along to TAAR.
    :query string study: Additional parameter passed along to TAAR.

Commit message:

Support China Edition disco content (#7493)

docs/topics/api/discovery.rst, after:

=========
Discovery
=========

.. note::
    These APIs are experimental and are currently being worked on. Endpoints
    may change without warning.

-----------------
Discovery Content
-----------------

.. _disco-content:

This endpoint allows you to fetch content for the new Discovery Pane in
Firefox (about:addons).

 .. http:get:: /api/v3/discovery/

    :query string lang: Activate translations in the specific language for that query. (See :ref:`translated fields <api-overview-translations>`)
    :query string edition: Return content for a specific edition of Firefox.  Currently only ``china`` is supported.
    :>json int count: The number of results for this query.
    :>json array results: The array containing the results for this query.
    :>json string results[].heading: The heading for this item. May contain some HTML tags.
    :>json string|null results[].description: The description for this item, if any. May contain some HTML tags.
    :>json boolean results[].is_recommendation: If this item was from the recommendation service, rather than static curated content.
    :>json object results[].addon: The :ref:`add-on <addon-detail-object>` for this item. Only a subset of fields are present: ``id``, ``current_version`` (with only the ``compatibility`` and ``files`` fields present), ``guid``, ``icon_url``, ``name``, ``slug``, ``theme_data``, ``type`` and ``url``.


-------------------------
Discovery Recommendations
-------------------------

.. _disco-recommendations:

If a telemetry client id is passed as a parameter to the discovery pane api
endpoint then static curated content is amended with recommendations from the
`recommendation service <https://github.com/mozilla/taar>`_.  The same number
of results will be returned as a standard discovery response and only extensions
(not themes) are recommeded.  Only valid, publicly available addons are shown.

E.g. a standard discovery pane will display 7 items, 4 extensions and 3 themes.
Up to 4 extensions will be replaced with recommendations; the 3 themes will not
be replaced. The API will still return a total of 7 items.

.. note::
    Specifying an ``edition`` parameter disables recommendations - the ``telemetry-client-id``
    is ignored and standard discovery response returned.


 .. http:get:: /api/v3/discovery/?telemetry-client-id=12345678-90ab-cdef-1234-567890abcdef

    :query string telemetry-client-id: The telemetry client ID to be passed to the TAAR service.
    :query string lang: In addition to activating translations (see :ref:`Discovery Content <disco-content>`), this will be passed as `locale` to TAAR.
    :query string platform: The platform identifier to be passed to TAAR.
    :query string branch: Additional parameter passed along to TAAR.
    :query string study: Additional parameter passed along to TAAR.
