docs/topics/api/overview.rst, before:

.. _api-overview:

========
Overview
========

This describes the details of the requests and responses you can expect from
the `addons.mozilla.org <https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/>`_ API.

--------
Requests
--------

All requests should be made with the header::

        Content-type: application/json

---------
Responses
---------

~~~~~~~~~~~~
Status Codes
~~~~~~~~~~~~

There are some common API responses that you can expect to receive at times.

.. http:get:: /api/v3/...

    :statuscode 200: Success.
    :statuscode 201: Creation successful.
    :statuscode 202: The request has been accepted for processing.
        This usually means one or more asyncronous tasks is being executed in
        the background so results aren't immediately visible.
    :statuscode 204: Success (no content is returned).
    :statuscode 400: There was a problem with the parameters sent with this
        request.
    :statuscode 401: Authentication is required or failed.
    :statuscode 403: You are not permitted to perform this action.
    :statuscode 404: The requested resource could not be found.
    :statuscode 500: An unknown error occurred.
    :statuscode 503: The site is in maintenance mode at this current time and
        the operation can not be performed.

~~~~~~~~~~~~
Bad Requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~

When returning a ``HTTP 400 Bad Request`` response, the API will try to return
some information about the error(s) in the body of the response, as a JSON
object. The keys of that object indicate the field(s) that caused an error, and
for each, a list of messages will be provided (often only one message will be
present, but sometimes more). If the error is not attached to a specific field
the key ``non_field_errors`` will be used instead.

Example:

     .. code-block:: json

         {
             "username": ["This field is required."],
             "non_field_errors": ["Error not linked to a specific field."]
         }

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Unauthorized and Permission Denied
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When returning ``HTTP 401 Unauthorized`` and ``HTTP 403 Permission Denied``
responses, the API will try to return some information about the error in the
body of the response, as a JSON object. A ``detail`` property will contain a
message explaining the error. In addition, in some cases, an optional ``code``
property will be present and will contain a constant corresponding to
specific problems to help clients address the situation programmatically. The
constants are as follows:

    ========================  =========================================================
                       Value  Description
    ========================  =========================================================
        ERROR_INVALID_HEADER  The ``Authorization`` header is invalid.
     ERROR_SIGNATURE_EXPIRED  The signature of the token indicates it has expired.
    ERROR_DECODING_SIGNATURE  The token was impossible to decode and probably invalid.
    ========================  =========================================================


~~~~~~~~~~
Pagination
~~~~~~~~~~

By default, all endpoints returning a list of results are paginated.
The default number of items per page is 25 and clients can use the `page_size`
query parameter to change it to any value between 1 and 50. Exceptions to those
rules are possible but will be noted in the corresponding documentation for
affected endpoints.

The following properties will be available in paginated responses:

* *next*: the URL for the next page in the pagination.
* *previous*: the URL for the previous page in the pagination.
* *page_size*: The number of items per page in the pagination.
* *page_count*: The number of pages available in the pagination. It may be
  lower than `count / page_size` for elasticsearch based paginations that
  go beyond our `max_result_window` configuration.
* *count*: the total number of records.
* *results*: the array containing the results for this page.


.. _api-overview-translations:

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Translated fields
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Fields that can be translated by users (typically name, description) have a
special behaviour. The default is to return them as an object, with languages
as keys and translations as values:

.. code-block:: json

    {
        "name": {
            "en-US": "Games",
            "fr": "Jeux",
            "kn": "ಆಟಗಳು"
        }
    }

However, for performance, if you pass the `lang` parameter to a `GET` request,
then only the most relevant translation (the specified language or the
fallback, depending on whether a translation is available in the requested
language) will be returned as a string.

.. code-block:: json

    {
        "name": "Games"
    }

This behaviour also applies to `POST`, `PATCH` and `PUT` requests: you can
either submit an object containing several translations, or just a string. If
only a string is supplied, it will only be used to translate the field in the
current language.

~~~~~~~~~~~~
Cross Origin
~~~~~~~~~~~~

All APIs are available with `Cross-Origin Resource Sharing`_ unless otherwise
specified.


.. _`Cross-Origin Resource Sharing`: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/HTTP/Access_control_CORS

Commit message:

Only wrap outgoing links in the API if `wrap_outgoing_links` param is present

docs/topics/api/overview.rst, after:

.. _api-overview:

========
Overview
========

This describes the details of the requests and responses you can expect from
the `addons.mozilla.org <https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/>`_ API.

--------
Requests
--------

All requests should be made with the header::

        Content-type: application/json

---------
Responses
---------

~~~~~~~~~~~~
Status Codes
~~~~~~~~~~~~

There are some common API responses that you can expect to receive at times.

.. http:get:: /api/v3/...

    :statuscode 200: Success.
    :statuscode 201: Creation successful.
    :statuscode 202: The request has been accepted for processing.
        This usually means one or more asyncronous tasks is being executed in
        the background so results aren't immediately visible.
    :statuscode 204: Success (no content is returned).
    :statuscode 400: There was a problem with the parameters sent with this
        request.
    :statuscode 401: Authentication is required or failed.
    :statuscode 403: You are not permitted to perform this action.
    :statuscode 404: The requested resource could not be found.
    :statuscode 500: An unknown error occurred.
    :statuscode 503: The site is in maintenance mode at this current time and
        the operation can not be performed.

~~~~~~~~~~~~
Bad Requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~

When returning a ``HTTP 400 Bad Request`` response, the API will try to return
some information about the error(s) in the body of the response, as a JSON
object. The keys of that object indicate the field(s) that caused an error, and
for each, a list of messages will be provided (often only one message will be
present, but sometimes more). If the error is not attached to a specific field
the key ``non_field_errors`` will be used instead.

Example:

     .. code-block:: json

         {
             "username": ["This field is required."],
             "non_field_errors": ["Error not linked to a specific field."]
         }

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Unauthorized and Permission Denied
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When returning ``HTTP 401 Unauthorized`` and ``HTTP 403 Permission Denied``
responses, the API will try to return some information about the error in the
body of the response, as a JSON object. A ``detail`` property will contain a
message explaining the error. In addition, in some cases, an optional ``code``
property will be present and will contain a constant corresponding to
specific problems to help clients address the situation programmatically. The
constants are as follows:

    ========================  =========================================================
                       Value  Description
    ========================  =========================================================
        ERROR_INVALID_HEADER  The ``Authorization`` header is invalid.
     ERROR_SIGNATURE_EXPIRED  The signature of the token indicates it has expired.
    ERROR_DECODING_SIGNATURE  The token was impossible to decode and probably invalid.
    ========================  =========================================================


~~~~~~~~~~
Pagination
~~~~~~~~~~

By default, all endpoints returning a list of results are paginated.
The default number of items per page is 25 and clients can use the `page_size`
query parameter to change it to any value between 1 and 50. Exceptions to those
rules are possible but will be noted in the corresponding documentation for
affected endpoints.

The following properties will be available in paginated responses:

* *next*: the URL for the next page in the pagination.
* *previous*: the URL for the previous page in the pagination.
* *page_size*: The number of items per page in the pagination.
* *page_count*: The number of pages available in the pagination. It may be
  lower than `count / page_size` for elasticsearch based paginations that
  go beyond our `max_result_window` configuration.
* *count*: the total number of records.
* *results*: the array containing the results for this page.


.. _api-overview-translations:

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Translated Fields
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Fields that can be translated by users (typically name, description) have a
special behaviour. The default is to return them as an object, with languages
as keys and translations as values:

.. code-block:: json

    {
        "name": {
            "en-US": "Games",
            "fr": "Jeux",
            "kn": "ಆಟಗಳು"
        }
    }

However, for performance, if you pass the ``lang`` parameter to a ``GET``
request, then only the most relevant translation (the specified language or the
fallback, depending on whether a translation is available in the requested
language) will be returned as a string.

.. code-block:: json

    {
        "name": "Games"
    }

This behaviour also applies to ``POST``, ``PATCH`` and ``PUT`` requests: you
can either submit an object containing several translations, or just a string.
If only a string is supplied, it will only be used to translate the field in
the current language.

.. _api-overview-outgoing:

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Outgoing Links
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If the ``wrap_outgoing_links`` query parameter is present, any external links
returned for properties such as ``support_url`` or ``homepage`` will be wrapped
through ``outgoing.prod.mozaws.net``. Fields supporting some HTML, such as
add-on ``description``, always do this regardless of whether or not the query
parameter is present.

~~~~~~~~~~~~
Cross Origin
~~~~~~~~~~~~

All APIs are available with `Cross-Origin Resource Sharing`_ unless otherwise
specified.


.. _`Cross-Origin Resource Sharing`: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/HTTP/Access_control_CORS
