docs/topics/development/testing.rst, before:

.. _testing:

=======
Testing
=======

We're using a mix of `Django's Unit Testing`_ and `pytest`_ with
`pytest-django`_, and `Selenium`_ for our automated testing. This gives us a
lot of power and flexibility to test all aspects of the site.

Selenium tests are in a separate `Selenium repository`_.

Configuration
-------------

Configuration for your unit tests is handled automatically.  The only
thing you'll need to ensure is that the database credentials in your settings
has full permissions to modify a database with ``test_`` prepended to it. By
default the database name is ``olympia``, so the test database is
``test_olympia``.
Optionally, in particular if the code you are working on is related to search,
you'll want to run Elasticsearch tests. Obviously, you need Elasticsearch to be
installed. See :ref:`elasticsearch` page for details.

If you don't want to run the Elasticsearch tests, you can use the
``test_no_es`` target in the Makefile::

    make test_no_es

On the contrary, if you only want to run Elasticsearch tests, use the
``test_es`` target::

    make test_es


Running Tests
-------------

To run the whole test suite use::

    pytest

There are a lot of options you can pass to adjust the output.  Read `pytest`_
and `pytest-django`_ docs for the full set, but some common ones are:

* ``-v`` to provide more verbose information about the test run
* ``-s`` tells pytest to not capture the logging output
* ``--create-db`` tells pytest-django to recreate the database instead of
  reusing the one from the previous run
* ``-x --pdb`` to stop on the first failure, and drop into a python debugger
* ``--lf`` to re-run the last test failed
* ``-m test_es`` will only run tests that are marked with the ``test_es`` mark
* ``-k foobar`` will only run tests that contain ``foobar`` in their name

There are a few useful makefile targets that you can use:

Run all the tests::

    make test

If you need to rebuild the database::

    make test_force_db

To fail and stop running tests on the first failure::

    make tdd

If you wish to add arguments, or run a specific test, overload the variables
(check the Makefile for more information)::

    make test ARGS='-v src/olympia/amo/tests/test_url_prefix.py::MiddlewareTest::test_get_app'

If you wish to re-run only the tests failed from the previous run::

    make test_failed


Database Setup
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Our test runner is configured by default to reuse the database between each
test run.  If you really want to make a new database (e.g. when models have
changed), use the ``--create-db`` parameter::

    pytest --create-db

or

::

    make test_force_db


Writing Tests
-------------
We support two types of automated tests right now and there are some details
below but remember, if you're confused look at existing tests for examples.

Also, take some time to get familiar with `pytest`_ way of dealing with
dependency injection, which they call `fixtures`_ (which should not be confused
with Django's fixtures). They are very powerful, and can make your tests much
more independent, cleaner, shorter, and more readable.


Unit/Functional Tests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Most tests are in this category.  Our test classes extend
``django.test.TestCase`` and follow the standard rules for unit tests.
We're using JSON fixtures for the data.

External calls
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Connecting to remote services in tests is not recommended, developers should
mock_ out those calls instead.

Why Tests Fail
--------------
Tests usually fail for one of two reasons: The code has changed or the data has
changed.  An third reason is **time**.  Some tests have time-dependent data
usually in the fixtures.  For example, some featured items have expiration
dates.

We can usually save our future-selves time by setting these expirations far in
the future.


Localization Tests
------------------
If you want test that your localization works then you can add in locales
in the test directory. For an example see ``devhub/tests/locale``. These locales
are not in the normal path so should not show up unless you add them to the
`LOCALE_PATH`. If you change the .po files for these test locales, you will
need to recompile the .mo files manually, for example::

    msgfmt --check-format -o django.mo django.po


.. _`Django's Unit Testing`: http://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/topics/testing
.. _`pytest`: http://pytest.org/latest/
.. _`pytest-django`: https://pytest-django.readthedocs.io/en/latest/
.. _`Selenium`: http://www.seleniumhq.org/
.. _`Selenium repository`: https://github.com/mozilla/Addon-Tests/
.. _mock: http://pypi.python.org/pypi/mock
.. _fixtures: http://pytest.org/latest/fixture.html

Commit message:

Add Integration test documentation (#7695)
* Initial docs for new ui tests.

docs/topics/development/testing.rst, after:

.. _testing:

=======
Testing
=======

We're using a mix of `Django's Unit Testing`_ and `pytest`_ with
`pytest-django`_, and `Selenium`_ for our automated testing. This gives us a
lot of power and flexibility to test all aspects of the site.

Configuration
-------------

Configuration for your unit tests is handled automatically.  The only
thing you'll need to ensure is that the database credentials in your settings
has full permissions to modify a database with ``test_`` prepended to it. By
default the database name is ``olympia``, so the test database is
``test_olympia``.
Optionally, in particular if the code you are working on is related to search,
you'll want to run Elasticsearch tests. Obviously, you need Elasticsearch to be
installed. See :ref:`elasticsearch` page for details.

If you don't want to run the Elasticsearch tests, you can use the
``test_no_es`` target in the Makefile::

    make test_no_es

On the contrary, if you only want to run Elasticsearch tests, use the
``test_es`` target::

    make test_es


Running Tests
-------------

To run the whole test suite use::

    pytest

There are a lot of options you can pass to adjust the output.  Read `pytest`_
and `pytest-django`_ docs for the full set, but some common ones are:

* ``-v`` to provide more verbose information about the test run
* ``-s`` tells pytest to not capture the logging output
* ``--create-db`` tells pytest-django to recreate the database instead of
  reusing the one from the previous run
* ``-x --pdb`` to stop on the first failure, and drop into a python debugger
* ``--lf`` to re-run the last test failed
* ``-m test_es`` will only run tests that are marked with the ``test_es`` mark
* ``-k foobar`` will only run tests that contain ``foobar`` in their name

There are a few useful makefile targets that you can use:

Run all the tests::

    make test

If you need to rebuild the database::

    make test_force_db

To fail and stop running tests on the first failure::

    make tdd

If you wish to add arguments, or run a specific test, overload the variables
(check the Makefile for more information)::

    make test ARGS='-v src/olympia/amo/tests/test_url_prefix.py::MiddlewareTest::test_get_app'

If you wish to re-run only the tests failed from the previous run::

    make test_failed

Selenium Integration Tests
--------------------------
To run the selenium based tests outside of the docker container use the following command::

    docker-compose exec --user root selenium-firefox tox -e ui-tests

WARNING: This will WIPE the database as the test will create specific data for itself to look for.
If you have anything you don't want to be deleted, please do not run these tests.

For more detailed information on the integration tests, please see the Readme within the ``tests/ui`` directory.

Database Setup
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Our test runner is configured by default to reuse the database between each
test run.  If you really want to make a new database (e.g. when models have
changed), use the ``--create-db`` parameter::

    pytest --create-db

or

::

    make test_force_db


Writing Tests
-------------
We support two types of automated tests right now and there are some details
below but remember, if you're confused look at existing tests for examples.

Also, take some time to get familiar with `pytest`_ way of dealing with
dependency injection, which they call `fixtures`_ (which should not be confused
with Django's fixtures). They are very powerful, and can make your tests much
more independent, cleaner, shorter, and more readable.


Unit/Functional Tests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Most tests are in this category.  Our test classes extend
``django.test.TestCase`` and follow the standard rules for unit tests.
We're using JSON fixtures for the data.

Selenium Integration Tests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The `Selenium`_ tests are written using a Page Object Model via `PyPom`_. Please
view the documentation there to help you write integration tests.

External calls
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Connecting to remote services in tests is not recommended, developers should
mock_ out those calls instead.

Why Tests Fail
--------------
Tests usually fail for one of two reasons: The code has changed or the data has
changed.  An third reason is **time**.  Some tests have time-dependent data
usually in the fixtures.  For example, some featured items have expiration
dates.

We can usually save our future-selves time by setting these expirations far in
the future.


Localization Tests
------------------
If you want test that your localization works then you can add in locales
in the test directory. For an example see ``devhub/tests/locale``. These locales
are not in the normal path so should not show up unless you add them to the
`LOCALE_PATH`. If you change the .po files for these test locales, you will
need to recompile the .mo files manually, for example::

    msgfmt --check-format -o django.mo django.po


.. _`Django's Unit Testing`: http://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/topics/testing
.. _`PyPom`: http://pypom.readthedocs.io/en/latest/
.. _`pytest`: http://pytest.org/latest/
.. _`pytest-django`: https://pytest-django.readthedocs.io/en/latest/
.. _`Selenium`: http://www.seleniumhq.org/
.. _`Selenium repository`: https://github.com/mozilla/Addon-Tests/
.. _mock: http://pypi.python.org/pypi/mock
.. _fixtures: http://pytest.org/latest/fixture.html
