docs/topics/development/tests.rst, before:

=============
Running Tests
=============

Run tests from outside the docker container with ``make``::

    make test

Other, more niche, test commands::

    make test_failed # rerun the failed tests from the previous run
    make test_force_db # run the entire test suite with a new database
    make tdd # run the entire test suite, but stop on the first error


Using py.test directly
----------------------

**For advanced users.**
To run the entire test suite you never need to use ``py.test`` directly.

You can connect to the docker container using ``make shell``; then use
``py.test`` directly, which allows for finer-grained control of the test
suite.

Run your tests like this::

    py.test

For running subsets of the entire test suite, you can specify which tests
run using different methods:

* `py.test -m es_tests` to run the tests that are marked_ as `es_tests`
* `py.test -k test_no_license` to run all the tests that have
  `test_no_license` in their name
* `py.test src/olympia/addons/tests/test_views.py::TestLicensePage::test_no_license`
  to run this specific test

For more, see the `Pytest usage documentation`_.

.. _marked: http://pytest.org/latest/mark.html
.. _Pytest usage documentation:
    http://pytest.org/latest/usage.html#specifying-tests-selecting-tests

Commit message:

Refactor our tests and code to make better use of settings.TMP_PATH
 * Also let the dot in py.test die so that upstream is happy again :)
 * Update tox to 2.9.1
 * Make sure that our urlconf is reset *after* we set MEDIA_ROOT
 * Adapt file extraction handling to new TMP_PATH prefixes
 * Less dump_apps hacks since the apps.json file isn't present at the
   beginning of any test now thanks to temporary paths for every separate
   test
 * Rewrite read-only-mode tests to cope with pytest settings fixture
 * Remove atexit hack from settings_test

This will probably make things a lot easier for ui-tests as well.

Fixes #7205
Fixes #7206

docs/topics/development/tests.rst, after:

=============
Running Tests
=============

Run tests from outside the docker container with ``make``::

    make test

Other, more niche, test commands::

    make test_failed # rerun the failed tests from the previous run
    make test_force_db # run the entire test suite with a new database
    make tdd # run the entire test suite, but stop on the first error


Using pytest directly
----------------------

**For advanced users.**
To run the entire test suite you never need to use ``pytest`` directly.

You can connect to the docker container using ``make shell``; then use
``pytest`` directly, which allows for finer-grained control of the test
suite.

Run your tests like this::

    pytest

For running subsets of the entire test suite, you can specify which tests
run using different methods:

* `pytest -m es_tests` to run the tests that are marked_ as `es_tests`
* `pytest -k test_no_license` to run all the tests that have
  `test_no_license` in their name
* `pytest src/olympia/addons/tests/test_views.py::TestLicensePage::test_no_license`
  to run this specific test

For more, see the `Pytest usage documentation`_.

.. _marked: http://pytest.org/latest/mark.html
.. _Pytest usage documentation:
    http://pytest.org/latest/usage.html#specifying-tests-selecting-tests
